doc/introduction/anomaly-types.md, before:

# Anomaly Types

The generator comes with the following anomaly types in [gutenTAG/anomalies/types](../../gutenTAG/anomalies/types):

- amplitude
- extremum
- frequency
- mean
- pattern
- pattern-shift
- platform
- trend
- variance
- mode-correlation

**General Anomaly Properties**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|kind|Enum['amplitude','extremum','frequency','mean','pattern','pattern_shift','platform','trend','variance']|Kind of anomaly (see below)|
|position|Enum['beginning','middle','end']|Position of anomaly|
|length|Int|Length of anomaly|
|channel|Int|ID of channel on which anomaly should be applied|

## Amplitude

![amplitude](images/amplitude.png)

**Parameters**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|amplitude_factor|Float|Change factor of amplitude|

## Extremum

![extremum](images/extremum.png)

**Parameters**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|min|Bool|Whether it's a minimum or maximum|
|local|Bool|Whether it's local or global|
|context_window|Int|[Only `local`] how many points to the left and right are used to calculate extremum|

## Frequency

![frequency](images/frequency.png)

**Parameters**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|frequency_factor|Float|Relative change of frequency|

## Mean

![mean](images/mean.png)

**Parameters**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|offset|Float|Value to shift time series on Y-axis|

## Pattern

![pattern](images/pattern-sine.png)
![pattern](images/pattern-ecg.png)

**Parameters**

| Name               | Type  | Description                                                                       |
|:-------------------|:------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| sinusoid_k         | Float | [Only for `sine` and `cosine`] Ramming factor for changing sine waves.            |
| square_duty        | Float | [Only for `square`] New duty of the square wave.                                  |
| sawtooth_width     | Float | [Only for `sawtooth`] New width                                                   |
| cbf_pattern_factor | Float | [Only for `cylinder_bell_funnel`] Pattern variance factor for change in CBF wave. |

Only one of the parameters above is necessary.
`sinusoid_k` works with `sine` BOs, while `cbf_pattern_factor` works with `cylinder-bell-funnel` BOs.

## Pattern Shift

![pattern-shift](images/pattern-shift.png)

**Parameters**

| Name              | Type | Description                                                                   |
|:------------------|:-----|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| shift_by          | Int  | Size of the shift length to the right. Can be negative for shift to the left. |
| transition_window | Int  | Number of points to the left and right used for transition.                   |

## Platform

![platform](images/platform.png)

**Parameters**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|value|Float|Value of the platform on Y-axis|

## Trend

![trend](images/trend.png)

A trend anomaly can have any form of the base oscillations.
Use the same parameters as for the base oscillations.

## Variance

![variance](images/variance.png)

**Parameters**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|variance|Float|Value of the new variance|

## Mode Correlation

![mode-correlation](images/mode-correlation.png)

Takes 1-d subsequence of arbitrary length and changes the mode to the opposite.

**Parameters**

None

## Adding a new Anomaly Type

1. create a new Enum type for [`AnomalyKind`](../../gutenTAG/anomalies/types/kind.py) and adapt the `generate` method
2. [RECOMMENDED] create a new anomaly type class under [gutenTAG/anomalies/types](../../gutenTAG/anomalies/types)
    1. the new class should inherit from [`gutenTAG.anomalies.BaseAnomaly`](../../gutenTAG/anomalies/types/__init__.py)

## Creepy Anomaly

Some anomaly types (`amplitude`, `mean`, and `variance`) allow for a transition into the anomaly - a creep. 
Therefore, the additional parameter `creep-length` for an anomaly is introduced. It takes `creep-length` points 
from the overall `length` anomaly points and creates a linear transition into the `length - creep-length` anomaly. 

### Example

```yaml
timeseries:
  - name: variance
    length: 1000
    base-oscillations:
      - kind: sine
        frequency: 2
        variance: 0.1
    anomalies:
      - exact-position: 460
        length: 540
        creep-length: 500
        channel: 0
        kinds:
          - kind: variance
            variance: 1.0
```

![example-anomaly-creep.png](images/example-anomaly-creep.png)

Commit message:

Creepy changed to creeping (cont.) (#18)
* #15 Creepy changed to creeping

* Update example-config-creep-variance-transition.yaml

* File Name changes

* Update test_anomaly_types.py

* chore: remaining renaming and some formatting issues

* feat: creeping-renaming changes API, so at least increase the minor version!

---------

Co-authored-by: RedCore0 <redcore04gg@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Michal Redzko <117772544+RedCore0@users.noreply.github.com>

doc/introduction/anomaly-types.md, after:

# Anomaly Types

The generator comes with the following anomaly types in [gutenTAG/anomalies/types](../../gutenTAG/anomalies/types):

- amplitude
- extremum
- frequency
- mean
- pattern
- pattern-shift
- platform
- trend
- variance
- mode-correlation

**General Anomaly Properties**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|kind|Enum['amplitude','extremum','frequency','mean','pattern','pattern_shift','platform','trend','variance']|Kind of anomaly (see below)|
|position|Enum['beginning','middle','end']|Position of anomaly|
|length|Int|Length of anomaly|
|channel|Int|ID of channel on which anomaly should be applied|

## Amplitude

![amplitude](images/amplitude.png)

**Parameters**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|amplitude_factor|Float|Change factor of amplitude|

## Extremum

![extremum](images/extremum.png)

**Parameters**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|min|Bool|Whether it's a minimum or maximum|
|local|Bool|Whether it's local or global|
|context_window|Int|[Only `local`] how many points to the left and right are used to calculate extremum|

## Frequency

![frequency](images/frequency.png)

**Parameters**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|frequency_factor|Float|Relative change of frequency|

## Mean

![mean](images/mean.png)

**Parameters**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|offset|Float|Value to shift time series on Y-axis|

## Pattern

![pattern](images/pattern-sine.png)
![pattern](images/pattern-ecg.png)

**Parameters**

| Name               | Type  | Description                                                                       |
|:-------------------|:------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| sinusoid_k         | Float | [Only for `sine` and `cosine`] Ramming factor for changing sine waves.            |
| square_duty        | Float | [Only for `square`] New duty of the square wave.                                  |
| sawtooth_width     | Float | [Only for `sawtooth`] New width                                                   |
| cbf_pattern_factor | Float | [Only for `cylinder_bell_funnel`] Pattern variance factor for change in CBF wave. |

Only one of the parameters above is necessary.
`sinusoid_k` works with `sine` BOs, while `cbf_pattern_factor` works with `cylinder-bell-funnel` BOs.

## Pattern Shift

![pattern-shift](images/pattern-shift.png)

**Parameters**

| Name              | Type | Description                                                                   |
|:------------------|:-----|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| shift_by          | Int  | Size of the shift length to the right. Can be negative for shift to the left. |
| transition_window | Int  | Number of points to the left and right used for transition.                   |

## Platform

![platform](images/platform.png)

**Parameters**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|value|Float|Value of the platform on Y-axis|

## Trend

![trend](images/trend.png)

A trend anomaly can have any form of the base oscillations.
Use the same parameters as for the base oscillations.

## Variance

![variance](images/variance.png)

**Parameters**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|variance|Float|Value of the new variance|

## Mode Correlation

![mode-correlation](images/mode-correlation.png)

Takes 1-d subsequence of arbitrary length and changes the mode to the opposite.

**Parameters**

None

## Adding a new Anomaly Type

1. create a new Enum type for [`AnomalyKind`](../../gutenTAG/anomalies/types/kind.py) and adapt the `generate` method
2. [RECOMMENDED] create a new anomaly type class under [gutenTAG/anomalies/types](../../gutenTAG/anomalies/types)
    1. the new class should inherit from [`gutenTAG.anomalies.BaseAnomaly`](../../gutenTAG/anomalies/types/__init__.py)

## Creeping Anomaly

Some anomaly types (`amplitude`, `mean`, and `variance`) allow for a transition into the anomaly - a creeping.
Therefore, the additional parameter `creeping-length` for an anomaly is introduced. It takes `creeping-length` points
from the overall `length` anomaly points and creates a linear transition into the `length - creeping-length` anomaly.

### Example

```yaml
timeseries:
  - name: variance
    length: 1000
    base-oscillations:
      - kind: sine
        frequency: 2
        variance: 0.1
    anomalies:
      - exact-position: 460
        length: 540
        creeping-length: 500
        channel: 0
        kinds:
          - kind: variance
            variance: 1.0
```

![example-anomaly-creeping.png](images/example-anomaly-creeping.png)
